doc: release notes v4.0: STM32 additions (#81127)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/releases/release-notes-4.0.rst

* Added support for these SoC series:

  * Added ESP32-C2 and ESP8684 SoC support.
  * Added STM32U0 series with GPIO, Serial, I2C, DAC, ADC, flash, PMW and counter driver support.

>   * Added STM32U0 series with GPIO, Serial, I2C, SPI, ADC, DMA and flash driver support.

Reviewer: I guess one of them should be WB0.
And also PMW -> PWM

* Clock control

  * STM32 MCO (Main Clock Output) is now available on STM32U5 series.
  * STM32 MCO can and should now be configured with device tree.

>   * STM32: :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL` is now enabled by default at family level and doesn't need
>     anymore to be enabled at board level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * STM32: :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL` is now enabled by default at family level and doesn't need
    to be enabled at board level anymore.
```

* Counter

* Crypto

  * Added support for STM32L4 AES.

* DAC

>   * DAP API now supports specifying channel path as internal. Support ios added on STM32 drivers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * DAP API now supports specifying channel path as internal. Support has been added in STM32 drivers.
```

* Disk

>   * STM32F7 SDMMC driver now allows use of DMA.

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
  * STM32F7 SDMMC driver now supports usage of DMA.
```

Author: Done

>   * STM32 mem controller now support FMC for STM32H5.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * STM32 mem controller now supports FMC for STM32H5.
```

Author: Done

* Display

* Ethernet

  * LiteX: Renamed the ``compatible`` from ``litex,eth0`` to :dtcompatible:`litex,liteeth`.
  * STM32: Driver can now be configured to use a preemptive RX thread priority, which could be useful

>     in case of high network traffic load (reduce jitter).

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
    in case of high network traffic load (reduces jitter).
```

Author: Done

* Flash

  * Fixed SPI NOR driver issue where wp, hold and reset pins were incorrectly initialized from
    device tee when SFDP at run-time has been enabled (:github:`80383`)

>   * Extended STM32 OSPI drivers to support QUAL, DUAL and SPI modes. Additionally added support

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
  * Extended STM32 OSPI drivers to support QUAL, DUAL and SPI modes. Additionally, added support
```

Author: Done

  * Added proper ADC2 calibration entries in ESP32.
  * Fixed calibration scheme in ESP32-S3.

>   * STM32H7: Added support for higher sampling frequencies thanks to boost mode implementation.

Reviewer: Maybe you could also add:
* STM32: Domain clock need to be explicitly defined if property `st,adc-clock-source = <ASYNC>` is used.

* Clock control

>   * STM32 MCO (Main Clock Output) is now available on STM32U5 series.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * STM32 MCO (Microcontroller Clock Output) is now available on STM32U5 series.
```

  * STM32 MCO can and should now be configured with device tree.
  * STM32: :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL` is now enabled by default at family level and doesn't need
    to be enabled at board level anymore.

>   * STM32H7: PLL FRACN can now be configured (see :dt-compatible:`st,stm32h7-pll-clock`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * STM32H7: PLL FRACN can now be configured (see :dtcompatible:`st,stm32h7-pll-clock`)
```

* Counter

* Crypto

  * Added support for STM32L4 AES.

* DAC

  * DAC API now supports specifying channel path as internal. Support has been added in STM32 drivers.

* Disk

  * STM32F7 SDMMC driver now supports usage of DMA.

>   * STM32 mem controller now supports FMC for STM32H5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * STM32 mem controller driver now supports FMC for STM32H5.
```

Also, is `Disk` the correct section for this?

    device tee when SFDP at run-time has been enabled (:github:`80383`)
  * Updated all Espressif's SoC driver initialization to allow new chipsets and octal flash support.
  * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SPI_NOR_ACTIVE_DWELL_MS`, to the SPI NOR driver configuration,
    which allows setting the time during which the driver will wait before triggering Deep Power Down (DPD).
    This option replaces ``CONFIG_SPI_NOR_IDLE_IN_DPD``, aiming at reducing unnecessary power
    state changes and SPI transfers between other operations, specifically when burst type
    access to an SPI NOR device occurs.
  * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SPI_NOR_INIT_PRIORITY` to allow selecting the SPI NOR driver initialization priority.
  * The flash API has been extended with the :c:func:`flash_copy` utility function which allows performing
    direct data copies between two Flash API devices.
  * Fixed a Flash Simulator issue where offsets were assumed to be absolute instead of relative
    to the device base address (:github:`79082`).
  * Extended STM32 OSPI drivers to support QUAL, DUAL and SPI modes. Additionally, added support
    for custom write and SFDP:BFP opcodes.

>   * Added possibility to run STM32H7 flash driver from M4 core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Added possibility to run STM32H7 flash driver from Cortex-M4 core.
```

* Pin control

>   * STM32: :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PIN_CONTROL` is now selected by drivers requiring it and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * STM32: :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PINCTRL` is now selected by drivers requiring it and
```

Author: I knew there was something off with this :). Fixed

>     shouldn't anymore be enabled at board level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    shouldn't be enabled at board level anymore.
```

Author: Done

* USB

  * Added support for USB HS on STM32U59x/STM32U5Ax SoC variants.

* Video

>   * STM32: Added support for get_ctrl() and set_ctrl() apis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * STM32: Added support for :c:func:get_ctrl() and :c:func:set_ctrl() APIs.
```

* Debug

>     * Added west runner for probe-rs, a rust based embedded toolkit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Added west runner for probe-rs, a Rust-based embedded toolkit.
```

* STM32

  * Updated STM32C0 to cube version V1.2.0.
  * Updated STM32F1 to cube version V1.8.6.
  * Updated STM32F2 to cube version V1.9.5.
  * Updated STM32F4 to cube version V1.28.1.
  * Updated STM32G4 to cube version V1.6.0.
  * Updated STM32H5 to cube version V1.3.0.
  * Updated STM32H7 to cube version V1.11.2.
  * Updated STM32H7RS to cube version V1.1.0.

>   * Add STM32U0 Cube package (1.1.0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Added STM32U0 Cube package (1.1.0)
```
